---
layout: post
title:  "Brownies"
date:   2015-12-18 15:52:20 -0500
author: "Noni Macon"
category: "Dessert"
---
Yields one large cookie sheet

Preparation time: 45 minutes

Baking time: 21-22 minutes: allow for cooling

### Ingredients:

• 5 ounces unsweetened chocolate

• 5 1⁄2 ounces unsalted butter

• 1 tablespoon powdered – NOT granulated – dry instant coffee

• 1⁄2 teaspoon salt

• 4 large or extra large eggs

• 2 cups granulated sugar

• 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

• 1⁄4 teaspoon almond extract

• 2 cups all-purpose flour

• 10 ounces walnut halves - optional

### Tools:

• 10 x 15 x 2 jelly-roll pan

• Double boiler

• Wax paper

• Standing electric mixer

• 2 cooling racks

• 2 cookie sheets

### Directions:

1. Preheat oven to 450 degrees, placing a rack one-third from the bottom of the oven

2. Butter the jelly-roll pan and line the bottom and sides with one long piece of wax paper; butter the paper lightly, dust with flour, invert over a sink and shake off excess

3. In a double boiler, place the chocolate and butter in the top over hot water at a moderate heat; cover until melted and whisk occasionally. Add the powdered coffee and stir until it has dissolved

4. Set aside the melted chocolate – now uncovered – to cool slightly

5. In the small bowl of an electric mixer, add salt to the eggs and beat until slightly fluffy; gradually add sugar and beat at medium high for 15 minutes. When completed, transfer to the large bowl of the mixer

6. To the chocolate mixture, stir in the vanilla and almond extracts

7. On the lowest speed, add the chocolate mixture to the egg mixture and beat only enough to blend

8. Still using the lowest speed and add the flour – again, only enough to blend

9. If including nuts, fold in whilst handling the mixture a little as possible

10. Turn into the prepared pan and spread evenly

11. Place in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature to 400 degrees

12. Bake for 21-22 minutes until a toothpick just barely comes out clean – do not over bake - these should be slightly moist

13. Remove from the oven and immediately cover with a large rack or cookie sheet and invert; remove the wax paper and again invert onto a large rack.

14. Allow to cool 10-15 minutes and invert one last time to ensure the brownies are not sticking to the rack and let cool completely. (The cake will cut more neatly if chilled or partially frozen)

15. Transfer to a cutting board and cut into pieces evenly using a serrated knife (Use a sawing motion in order to not squash the cake)

16. Wrap individually in clear cellophane or wax paper – do not use plastic wrap